I would like to invite you on a little thought experiment.
Let's pretend that we're going on a polar expedition together, all of you and me, and we need to hire a captain.
One comes from a man who has already successfully achieved all four of the major polar goals, the North Pole and the South Pole, and the Northeast and the Northwest Passage.
In fact, three of these, he was the first person to accomplish.
Candidate B is a man who set off for the Antarctic four times, three times as the man in charge, and every time resulted in failure, catastrophe, or death.
But in reality, we often trick ourselves into hiring Candidate B or someone like him.
Meanwhile, Candidate A, the Norwegian Roald Amundsen, by any metric, the most successful polar explorer to have ever lived, has been largely forgotten.
I did a quick search in my university's library catalog before this talk, and I found no fewer than 26 books that celebrate Shackleton's leadership qualities.
For Amundsen, I found four, two of which I wrote.
Why are we obsessed with a mediocre at best leader and overlooking a truly gifted one?
Well, I'm a historian who studies leadership, and I'm here to tell you we celebrate the wrong leaders, and not just in the realm of polar exploration.
You probably discuss him around the coffee machines in the mornings.
He was born an illiterate slave and rose to become one of the most influential revolutionaries ever and outsmarted the biggest empires of the day, including Napoleon's.
And this is not just an academic or a trivial insight.
All the challenges that we face today require people to work together, and this, in turn, requires somebody who can motivate them, inspire them, coordinate the work, deal with whatever hiccups might arise along the way.
But for this reason, it's important that we celebrate the right leaders, because the leaders we celebrate are the leaders we learn from.
And so in this sense, the leaders we celebrate has a direct impact on the success, or as it may be failure, of our greatest endeavors today.
But there's another culprit at work as well, what I like to call the action fallacy.
Our mistaken belief that the best leaders are those who generate the most noise, action, and sensational activity in the most dramatic circumstances.
In other words, we confuse a good story for good leadership.
As a matter of fact, very often, good leadership will result in a bad story.
Imagine leadership for one moment not as a polar explorer charting a new course or a CEO motivating her staff, but as the simple act of swimming across a river.
Imagine a violent river with waves crashing together and rocks lurking somewhere below the surface.
If a swimmer ventures in haphazardly, without being aware of his own capabilities or the currents, and nearly drowns, but splashes around wildly, fights with all his strength, and somehow, miraculously, manages to drag himself back to safety, those of us looking on will notice him.
He really fought hard to get himself out of that crisis.
And if instead we have a swimmer who has studied the river for years and knows just where and when to enter the water and how to turn her body in subtle ways, and so lets the current carry her across, we probably won't notice her.
And if we do, we would probably say, Eh, that looks pretty easy.
And he and his men were then forced to undertake a dangerous trek across the ice and brave some of the stormiest seas on Earth before finally reaching the safety of South Georgia in the summer of 1916.
In fact, it was made into a TV series starring a young Kenneth Branagh.
But it is not a story fit to draw leadership lessons from.
He overlooked the advice from local whalers who told him the ice was particularly dangerous that season.
And he overlooked massive deficits in his equipment, preparation, crew selection, and training.
Rarely highlighted in the many books that celebrate his leadership qualities is the fact that the expedition's other ship, the Aurora, suffered an even graver crisis, the result of which was three lost lives.
In contrast, the expeditions of a Roald Amundsen make for boring reading.
Not because he was lucky, but because based on his intimate knowledge of the polar environment, his careful and deliberate planning, and his authentic and innovative leadership in the field, he managed to reduce the problems that his team encountered to a bare minimum.
In 1905, he achieved, in a tiny fishing vessel, what the mighty British Navy had failed to do the previous eight decades, to find and navigate the Northwest Passage above the Canadian mainland.
If Shackleton is the swimmer who rushes recklessly into the water without understanding the currents or his own capabilities, Amundsen is the swimmer who has spent a lifetime humbly studying the river before entering the water in just the right spot at just the right time, and so makes it look easy.
Now, the action fallacy causes real problems, and not just for our interpretation of the past.
I arrived at it through my work as a historian interested in why we celebrate some leaders of the past, but not others.
But it's a dangerous feature in our offices today as well, because, after all, the same biases and misconceptions that we bring to our reading of the past are one and the same with which we view leadership in our offices today.
It is the Shackletons of our offices, rather than the Amundsens, who serve as role models, who get promoted, and who get rewarded.
In fact, this is something studies in organizational psychology have confirmed.
We see leadership potential in people who speak more, regardless of what they say.
In people who appear confident, regardless of how competent they are.
And we have an unyielding admiration for people who are perpetually busy, regardless of what they're actually doing.
I see some of you are imagining specific people in your office right now.
In other words, appearing to be a good leader, rather than actually being one behind the scenes, is the path to fame and bonus and promotion today.
With the wrong leaders in charge, organizations are obviously not performing at their full potential.
And it creates a toxic culture in which those actually doing good work feel overlooked and demotivated.
So this is a problem that we need to solve.
And it starts with reimagining what good leadership looks like.
First, we have to learn to ignore what we can call the captains of crisis, the Shackletons, those who are lurching from one dramatic circumstance to another.
Keith Grint, the preeminent scholar of leadership today, brilliantly summarizes this problematic dynamic.
Since we reward people who are good in crises and ignore people who are such good managers that there are few crises, people soon learn to seek out or reframe situations as crises.
We need to disincentivize this style of leadership by refusing to give these people the attention they crave.
And that's easy when we're confronted with the sober facts.
But as soon as it's embedded in a story, the dramatic details pull us in like a magnet and give us a false sense of inspiration.
Instead, we need to learn to celebrate those who mitigate rather than promote drama.
And this can be challenging because often they do so in very subtle ways, below the surface of the water, in the case of our swimmer.
They build processes that align the organization's strength with the unique challenges they face.
And they're authentic and create cultures that bring out the best in people.
I don't want to give you too many technical, academic terms here, but this is an important one.
But as she tells us from her research, the evidence is clear that boring management matters.
It may not be as exciting as leading a cavalry charge from the front or giving a brash pep talk, but it's the real toolkit of good leaders.
The action fallacy tricks us into celebrating the wrong leaders, and this comes with huge costs.
And this starts with reimagining what good leadership looks like.
So the next time you're in a position to judge or reward a leader, or maybe just the next time you're trying to figure out whose efforts actually guided your team or organization to success, resist the temptation to be dazzled by tales of adventure and daring do, and take a moment to look below the surface or in the quieter corners of your team.
And this is important because the next time your organization is faced with the equivalent of the ice pack looming on the horizon, who do you want in charge?
The leader who responds to the ship freezing in place by frantically cranking the engine, unpacking the crates of dynamite, and pushing his men to their breaking point?
Or the leader who avoids getting stuck in the ice in the first place?
I voted for Mitt Romney in 2012, and I voted for Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden, which is shocking, I know.
I'm a very proud supporter of Israel, even though I'm a critic of its current government.
I think terrorists like Hamas and Hezbollah are evil, and there is a bright line between groups that aim to kill innocents and those that try to avoid doing so at all costs.
I think that girls in Afghanistan shouldn't be sold into child marriages and that women in Iran should be free to show their hair in public without fear of imprisonment or worse, and that women in Somalia should not endure genital mutilation.
I believe that all people are created equal and created in the image of God, but that all cultures are not equal.
I believe in gay marriage, so much so that I'm actually in one myself.
I believe that adults should make pretty much any decision they want about their bodies, but that children should not.
I think the SAT is an imperfect but useful tool.
I believe that having kids is a very bad idea, and that living in a safe neighbourhood is among the truest forms of privilege.
I think COVID probably came from a lab, and that in retrospect locking kids out of school for two years was a big mistake.
I think we should hire people based on their merit, but cast as wide a net as possible.
I don't want to eat bugs, nor do I want to drink water full of microplastics, and I don't think there's anything coded right or left about either of those things.
I believe that equality of opportunity and not equality of outcome is the true measure of fairness.
I am repelled by ideologies that insist that our immutable characteristics are more important than our character.
I believe, in part because Americans are free to debate those flaws and to strive for a more perfect union, that it really is the last best hope on earth.
The point in all of this is that I am really boring, or at least I thought I was.
I am, or at least until a few seconds ago in historical time, I used to be considered a standard issue liberal.
And yet somehow, in our most intellectual and prestigious spaces, many of the ideas I just outlined and others like them have become provocative or controversial, which is really a polite way of saying unwelcome, beyond the pale, even bigoted or racist.
And how did that happen, at least it seems to me, in the span of under a few years?
Now, the convenient answer, of course, is the power of extreme activists, people who burn down businesses and police stations, people who shut down bridges and highways, people who harass their fellow students and shout down their professors, people who vandalize, who desecrate or tear down monuments of national heroes.
But do a handful of extreme activists really have the power to dismantle the moral guardrails of a whole society, to radically shift the of what is politically and socially acceptable?
There has always been and always will be a fringe.
The difference right now is that the fringe seems to be calling the shots.
Perhaps to give the most generous read, it's because the people shutting things down claim to be doing so in the name of justice, not in the name of nihilism.
Or perhaps it's because we told ourselves it's just a few nuts, I don't need to get involved.
Or maybe it's because people looked at their portfolio and decided that they were doing great by the numbers and those torch doors, eh, they probably had insurance anyway.
Or maybe it was because we thought they had a point.
That America and the West really were guilty of all of the terrible things that they said or at least of some of them.
And though we wouldn't have torn down statues or shouted down speakers, we lacked the conviction or the ideas to stop the people doing it.
Or because maybe in the end we prized comfort over complexity.
I was going to say prized comfort over truth, but the thing is, truth isn't something you pull out of the ground like gold or diamonds.
Which is why right now it can look like the absolutists are winning.
My theory is that the reason we have a culture in crisis is because of the cowardice of people that know better.
It exposes you as someone who is not chill, as someone who cares a lot, as someone who makes judgments, as someone who discerns between right and wrong, between better and worse.
The reason Aristotle called courage the first virtue is because it is the one that makes all of the other virtues possible.
Do you want to live in a world that values justice, wisdom, compassion, curiosity, rationality, equality, and the pursuit of truth?
But fighting to make sure we live in such a world is going to take courage, that first virtue.
I think one of the lessons of the past decade is that cowardice is perhaps more contagious than COVID.
And a singular example can serve as a powerful means of transmission.
Each one of you, when I say the word courage, will have the ones that come to mind for you.
But for me, they are people like Salman Rushdie, sentenced to death by the Iranian Ayatollahs in 1989 for the sin of writing a novel.
He lived under the shadow of a fatwa until two years ago.
On a stage like this one, he was viciously stabbed.
And undaunted this week, of course, he published a book about it.
Courage for me is someone like Pennsylvania Senator John Fetterman, who insists that there is nothing contradictory about his progressive values and his belief that Hamas is a band of murderers that must be defeated.
Now suffice it to say this has not made him popular, but he doesn't seem to care.
He wrote, I could not believe this was happening in a country that I so love.
He said, the healing of the world starts by one person saying loudly so the whole world can hear an important, true thing that he knows he's not supposed to say and that he knows will get him in trouble for saying it.
I think about Roland Fryer, the economist, who did just that.
His colleagues at Harvard warned him against publishing research that he did into police violence.
His baby was seven days old and he had to go to buy diapers with an armed guard.
He said, every day I have to look at myself in the mirror and say, what are you here for?
Masia Linajad knows what she is put on earth for.
With moxie and courage, she is leading the campaign for women's rights in Iran.
Her sister was forced to denounce her on state television.
And now Masi lives in exile in America, but remains a hunted woman, moving from safe house to safe house.
Jimmy had more than the means to flee his country.
He is a young man who is still in prison.
Dad staying in Hong Kong is really proof that this intangible thing we call liberty is a thing people yearn for.
You can call it Western values, but it's not really, in the sense that it's not something that only people in the West want or deserve.
Alexei Navalny was not born in the West, but he yearned for that kind of liberty.
The opposition leader had refuge in Germany, but he flew back into Putin's Russia, sacrificing his freedom and ultimately his life to oppose tyranny.
He knew that his death would expose the truth about a totalitarian regime built on lies, which it can, so long as we keep his memory alive.
Ask yourself right now, should it take courage in the West to denounce the hateful ideology of the Islamic Republic of Iran, which pronounces death on individual writers and on entire countries, large and small?
Should it take courage to oppose those chanting death to America?
Should it take courage to say that those who praise the pristine subways of Russia are not journalists but propagandists?
Should it take courage to just say in public, I disagree?
But why is it that his angriest opponents prefer to call him hateful names and to lobby for his support?
Because the real question is whether or not the people I've mentioned and those like them, whether their photos and their names, and most importantly, their ideas, will show up at conferences like this one.
I've had enough people confess to me after lectures or in newsrooms or on college campuses or in corporations or cafes, really everywhere I go, that they wish they could say what they believe.
They tell me with some measure of shame that they're closeted in our liberal democracies.
The freest people in the history of the world seem to have lost the hunger for liberty, or maybe it's really the will to defend it.
And when they tell me this, it puts me in mind of my hero, Natan Sharansky, who spent a decade in the Soviet Gulag before getting his freedom.
He is the single bravest person that I have ever met in my life.
And a few years ago, one afternoon in Jerusalem, I asked him a simple question.
Natan, I asked him, is it possible to teach courage?
And he smiled in his impish way and said, no.
All you can do is show people how good it feels to be free.
But these issues are so important, and this is such an important conversation.
I think I want to ask you something in the quest for common ground here.
Is it possible that as well as lack of courage, there's something else big going on in the hearts of many of the silent majority?
These are often debates between identity groups, and many of us don't like the way that the battle is going, but we also feel deeply the pain that a lot of these groups have gone through, the injustices that they have suffered.
And if you get involved, it can so easily be seen as you are against that group.
And I guess I'm just wondering whether there's common ground to be found in us all saying identity really matters.
I mean, you care about the past injustices of people in America and all the different groups you've talked about, but that there are some things that are upstream of identity that matter even more.
You know, that some people want to say that ideas are a property of one group and that you, you know, but no, no, our whole TED is all based on the notion that ideas can spread from any human to any human.
But the whole question is, sorry to interrupt, how do you get to truth, right?
And the West has given us the most radical tools in human history.
I think Sam Harris is probably in this room and I'm stealing his line.
But the radical departure is that here in rooms like this one, in cultures like the ones that we are lucky enough to live in, we don't solve our conflicts with blows and with violence.
And that is why it is so absolutely crucial, no matter how people who claim to, who are really advocating to burn it all down or tear it all down.
No, by tearing it all down, by tearing down the rule of law, by disallowing us to be able to have this kind of debate and discussion, you're preventing the whole project itself.
And that has nothing to do with identity, with claims of victimhood, with actual victimhood.
The entire way that progress has been achieved is by victim groups using the tools that liberal democracies have provided them with.
Without freedom, without freedom of speech, freedom of religion, without the rule of law, none of the progress that I know so many people in this room celebrate would be possible at all.
And so it's really about clinging to the tools rather than repudiating them.
The tools of words in our current culture, which is soundbite, fast stuff, it's so often heard as an assault.
And I just wonder whether there could be a coalition of the willing to all let's pursue the best ideas.
Let's not be fearful of sharing things that are difficult with each other, but do so in a spirit of love and respect and so that everyone can know that at heart they are respected.
I don't see anything to disagree with there, only that, you know, like, love and compassion and all of that, again, it's only possible if we agree to a certain set of rules that I think many of us took for granted in the way we take oxygen or gravity for granted.
And one of the things that has driven me and my choices over the past years of my life is a profound sense that the line between civilization and barbarism, a word that maybe will provoke some people, but I believe is an accurate description, is paper thin.
The things that allow for us to do this are so exceptional and they have to be fought for.
And the people that claim that words are violence are taking away the most fundamental tool we have for all of the virtues that I was trying to talk about on stage here this morning.
I'm here because of a letter I got 13 years ago.
It's a predictive genetic test report, and it's at the heart of this sort of red pill, blue pill moment when my life forked in two.
Before I tell you about that, I want to show you two moments from my life back then.
This is moment number one, when I was in my 20s, and this is moment number one, it's August 2009.
I'm marrying this guy, Eric, love of my life, and he gets up there to give his speech, and he's holding my diary from when I was 13.
And he starts reading from it, and the guests are looking at me like, did she know he was going to do this?
You can see how she's laughing, but she's kind of scandalized.
She is 51 years old, and on this day, she is glowing.
I wish I could stay here with you, but now I have to take you to moment number two.
It's only six months later, and suddenly there's this tear in the universe, and my mom is being sucked through it.
Something is really, really wrong, and it is snowballing, and it is everything.
I'm looking into her eyes, and there are these black holes, and I am begging her to come back, but it's like I'm shouting into the void.
That summer, she goes into the hospital, and she doesn't come out.
By the time she dies, it has been months since she was really there.
Dementia has robbed us of that, and we still have no idea what happened.
And then we get the results of my mom's autopsy, and this is where we reach the red pill and the blue pill.
I stand at this fork in the road with Eric, and sometimes in life, you know yourself.
I'm trained as a lawyer, he's trained as a transportation engineer.
We are not biomedical people, but we know that for us, this limbo isn't life.
I can't control what happens next, but I can control whether something happens next, and my choice is yes.
So I get tested, and we learn that I have the mutation.
We can't say when it will strike, only that it'll be some point in adulthood, and once it does, you die in months.
There's so much I want to tell you about what happens next, but the main thing to say is that it's not like we hatched some master plan to remake our lives overnight.
We're in the dark, and we find ourselves growing towards the light, and unexpectedly, the light is coming from the science of prion disease, understanding what is known, that anything is known.
We are drawn to it, and this is really humble at first, like we're reading Wikipedia pages and we're doing Google searches, and the momentum is powerful and strange.
And today, we're leading this lab of 12 people at the Broad Institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts, devoted to developing a therapy for prion disease in our lifetimes.
Bottom line, rumors of my death have been greatly exaggerated.
But let's talk about how prion disease works and what we need to do about it.
The causal pathogen isn't a virus, and it's not a bacterium.
It's this one normal protein called PRP that you normally have in your body, and it's normally not a problem.
And when it does, it changes shape, and then it goes around grabbing other copies of PRP, and it corrupts those.
And this spreads through your brain and kills your neurons.
Until recently, this was a process we could only infer.
When you look at the biology of this disease, any disease, where do your eyes go?
And if we think about how to treat this disease, we might think, go get those bad guys.
But Eric and I have come to see our mission differently.
What if we can do the most good, not by going after the big, scary pathogens and lobbing fireballs at them, but instead by doing something much more understated and subtle and less sexy and less conventional?
What if what we really need to do is this?
We're lucky to have the series of clues from nature that indicate you can live a healthy life without PRP.
So we're scouring the globe for tools to dial it down.
And brilliant ideas are an awesome start, but they also have to be wranglable into actual, practical medicines that stay in the body long enough to be useful and are safe and manufacturable and very tricky for the brain, get to the cells we need to reach.
But I do just want to assure you, because I see you twitching, wanting to ask me, I promise we most definitely have heard of CRISPR.
We find the molecule, and then we deploy it to deplete the fuel before the fire.
Where we have letters from the future to guide us, where what's at stake is irreplaceable human brains, we have to aim higher.
But we all know, if you're having a heart attack and you walk into the ER at that moment and they give you a statin, it won't help.
And some of us don't have the luxury of doing only what's comfortable.
I see this paradox at the heart of our mission.
We know so much more about the brain and how to get drugs there than we did even a few years ago.
But we have enough bricks in the wall that we can stand on them and reach for a rational therapy.
We have to be the people to say, the biotechnological moment is ripe.
And equally, we have to respect the vastly larger universe of everything we don't know about the brain.
We have to heed the call to protect what we can't rebuild.
Our quest requires this kind of extreme form of both.
A decade ago, if you had asked me, Sonya, what's the holy grail of your quest?
I would have said, it's that molecule I told you about.
But what if finding the molecule is not the goal?
It turns out, to meaningfully test a new medicine in humans, especially for rare disease and especially for prevention, you need more.
And if you're us, you need to be building it all in parallel, because you are racing against a clock you can't see.
There will be the race to the first drug and the race to the best drug.
We're far from the end of this quest, but we're far from the beginning.
But what we do have, and gosh, are we lucky to have it, is jeopardy.
There's more to say about what it's like to live with jeopardy, but as far as I can tell, at least, you all are human, and so I think on some level, you know.
Recently, I told a friend that I consider myself lucky, and he gets all surprised.
And my mind was kind of blown, because this is me.
There's no version of my life where you subtract the mutation and hold the rest constant.
On the one hand, I got dealt a bad card, and don't get me wrong, I really don't want to die young.
At the same time, this bad card has launched me on a quest with a team.
And the wonder of this exact life is that I am constantly getting to meet people's best selves, including versions of Eric and me that I wouldn't have encountered any other way.
And yet, here we all are, making our own grace out of the darndest raw materials.
It is not such a bad thing to be called to notice.
Speaking of grace, I want you to meet these guys.
My mom never got to meet these kids, and she would have been a luminous grandma.
But if she had, we wouldn't have known about my risk in time to avoid passing it on.
So somewhere wrapped up in the grief of having lost her so young, is this other thing, this transgenerational gift.
I'm walking alongside these kids on their own journeys, as best I can, and you know how it is with kids.
Sometimes the shape of the future begs to be assumed.
And perhaps, in ways large and small, it's a luxury none of us have.
What would it mean to do all of this less narratively?
What if our lives, our lives together, are best lived not as prose, but as poetry?
I'm still living into this question, but I'm glad to have it with me.
This is a rare disease, but it feels as if some of what you're learning is going to end up applicable to other diseases.
I see it in all sorts of ways, and this is how it goes with science, right?
And, you know, the thing that I would highlight is that here we are, with this disease that is in some ways very black and white.
You develop symptoms, and then you die three or six months later.
I think we have a strong case to go in and say, we need to prevent, and we have the tools to do it.
But this is not the only disease where that is what we need to do.
I just think we are in a position to lead the charge.
The idea that there are other proteins in a body that may be subject to a disease, and that the better thing to do is to take them out and figure out how to live without them than to risk, that could be applied in other circumstances.
Death stalks the fields of Ukraine and the streets of Gaza.
And in the Middle East, the drums of war sound louder by the day.
Well, your answer to that question probably depends on where you've been getting your news because here are some other stories from the last 12 months.
Some other reports of decline that you may not have heard about.
Deforestation across the entire Amazon basin declined by 55 percent.
And violent crime in the United States declined to its lowest level since the 1960s.
In the last 12 months, a record number of countries have eliminated a disease, including for the first time ever, hepatitis C by Egypt and black fever by Bangladesh.
When I was in high school, that was the world's deadliest infectious disease.
So maybe you've been feeling despair over climate change or the fear of fascism rising like Dracula from the coffin of resource overshoots and political decay.
But last year, carbon emissions in advanced economies declined back to the same level as 50 years ago.
And air pollution is now falling in 21 of the world's 25 biggest cities.
Alongside those declines, other things have been on the rise.
There are 50 million more girls in school today than there were just under a decade ago.
And last year, 418 million of the world's children got fed at school.
Since we were last all gathered here, millions of people have gained access to water.
Tens of millions of people have gained access to electricity.
It looks like Thailand and Japan are going to be the next two on that list.
And at least 10 countries in the last 12 months have passed laws expanding the rights of women, including France, which recently became the first country to enshrine reproductive rights into its constitution.
In 2023, we installed so much wind and solar that it changed the trajectory of our climate future, with China's carbon emissions now predicted to start falling as early as this year.
In 2024, we are going to install enough global solar manufacturing capacity to reach our net zero targets by the end of this decade.
There is too much momentum now to stop the transition to clean energy from happening.
Did you know that 2023 was arguably the greatest year ever for conservation?
We protected huge tracts of land in Alaska, the Amazon, Southern Africa, and the entire Tibetan Plateau, which is an area larger than all of Western Europe.
In the last 12 months, there have been hundreds of stories of cities being regreened, of farmland being rewilded, of rivers being cleaned up, islands being restored.
And the populations of every single one of these species is now either recovering or on the rise.
Look, I know that a lot of stuff is going wrong.
You know that a lot of stuff is going wrong.
This is not some weird attempt to cancel or balance out the bad news.
If we want more people to devote themselves to the task of making progress, then maybe we should be telling more people that it's possible to make progress.
If you're halfway up the mountain, you don't just stare at the top and say, oh my gosh, it looks so steep.
You look back and you remind yourselves how far we've already come.
In the last 12 months, despite all of the challenges, we have climbed a little further.
In Nevada, they're using geothermal techniques to tap into the clean energy of our planet.
On the border of Belgium and France, they're using bacteria to break down plastic.
And in space, new satellites mean polluters no longer have anywhere to hide.
We can perform miracles, enabling paralyzed people to walk by reading their brainwaves and sending the signals to their spine.
We've mapped a quarter of the entire ocean floor, and NVIDIA's new Blackwell chip has as many transistors in it as there are stars in the entire Milky Way.
In the last year, we started using CRISPR genetic editing to treat diseases like beta thalassemia and sickle cell disease.
And we created the largest ever atlas of human brain cells.
Two years ago, I almost lost my life to a bacterial infection.
In the future, many more people will be able to say the same.
Our scientific instruments are sensitive enough now to see plants speaking to each other and to detect the gravitational waves from the collisions of supermassive black holes.
All of a sudden, we know that we are humming in tune with the entire universe, that each of us contains the signature of everything that has ever been.
Not all rising levels result in loss, and sometimes there really are new things under the sun.
These are the stories of the brave and the brilliant, and they also deserve our attention.
You know, I'm one of these adults that actually still loves playing with LEGO.
I loved them way back in the 80s in Berlin when I grew up, and I still love them.
And these days, I build LEGO with my kids on Saturday afternoons.
And the reason that my love for LEGO has remained evergreen is quite simply that LEGO is a system for realizing creativity with almost no barrier to entry.
Now, I'm not only a LEGO dad, I'm also the CEO of GitHub.
And if you don't know GitHub, you can think of it as the home of coding.
It's where all the software developers, the chief nerds of our society, collaborate together.
And it's part of our mission to make it as easy as possible for every developer to build small and big ideas with code.
But in contrast to LEGO, the process of building software feels daunting to most people.
This all started to change when ChatGPT came along in late 2022.
Now we live in a world where intelligent machines understand us as much as we understand them.
And this will forever change the way we create software.
Up until now, in order to create software, you had to be a professional software developer.
You had to understand, speak, and interpret the highly complex, sometimes nonsensical language of a machine that we call code.
This, from the early 1940s, is the world's first computer programming language called PlanKalkül.
It set the foundation for the modern code that we use today.
Flash forward about 20 years to the programming language called COBOL.
COBOL was invented during the Eisenhower years, but it remains an important language for many of our largest financial institutions.
Wall Street, your savings account, your credit cards, all run on this today.
We see some familiar words here, but structurally, I think this doesn't make much sense to most of you.
Flash forward another 30 years to 1991, and we saw the birth of Python, one of the most popular programming languages in this era of AI.
In 80 years, we went from bubbles to brackets to blips of English, and yet, we got nowhere near as close as the intuitiveness of human language.
We fed random programming exercises into this raw model, and like magic, it solved 93 percent of them during the first few takes.
We at GitHub recognized we had something remarkable in our hands, and we quickly turned around a novel developer tool called GitHub Copilot, an AI assistant that predicts and completes code for software developers.
Copilot is now the most adopted AI developer tool on the planet.
The age of programming has been reborn, but the possibilities of the breakthrough went further than just these business results, because the large language models that power ChatGPT and Copilot are trained on a vast library of human information.
They understand and interpret nearly every human language, every major human language.
We have struck a new fusion between the language of a human and a machine.
With Copilot, any person can now build software in any human language with a single written prompt.
This is the most profound breakthrough to technology since the genesis of software development itself.
I think that number is about to explode, and I want to show you why here on my MacBook.
We started it all with the original Copilot, or how we say the OG Copilot, and it really just predicted and completed code in the editor.
You can think of the editor as, you know, the Google Docs for developers, and when you have an open doc open, you know how it is, empty page, what do I actually want to do?
And I mentioned Lego, so let's build a 3D Lego brick on a web page.
So what developers do, you know, they start typing, and so I type in a JavaScript file, create a function to create a Lego brick.
So now I can just press the Tab key and press Enter, and I get another suggestion, you know, to create a Lego tower.
And here again you see ghost text from Copilot right away available for me.
And if I like what I'm seeing here, so I get into a bit more mode of writing and understanding, I can just accept this.
Because instead of writing ten lines of code themselves or copy and pasting them from the Internet, they get them right in the editor.
Now what the OG Copilot didn't offer me is a way to interact with this.
I cannot, you know, instruct it to do different things.
Last year we launched a new feature, Copilot Chat, and you can think about it as chat GPT in your editor.
So I can open this up here in the sidebar, and now I can tell it to create a whole web page with a 3D Lego brick for me.
Now, you know, similar to chat GPT, it streams the response, and it gives me not only some code, but it actually gives me an explanation.
You can see the comments that explains what that code does.
It uses an open source library called 3JS, and so you can kind of see here the idea of this empowering developers and people that want to learn development.
Now I can go here, inspect that code, and I can actually push that button to copy it into my file.
But I want to show you something else here, and you might have already seen this little mic icon.
So I can use that to speak to Copilot, and I want to ask it in German what that code does that is on the left side in the editor.
And now, you know, Copilot responds again, but it responds in German to me, right?
So it says, if I loosely translate, yes, of course, this JavaScript code defines a function named drawLegoBrick.
Now what you also see is you still need to kind of figure out how you put that all together, right?
I have code I have to iterate on my machine.
I have to figure out how to deploy this to the cloud so I can share it with my friends.
This is what it looks like if I've done all these steps as a developer.
You can see, you know, it's a nicely rotating brick.
I can actually use my mouse to turn it around.
You can even zoom into this and zoom out of this.
Now, I don't want to do all this developer stuff anymore.
I just want to channel my creativity straight into reality.
And so for the first time ever on stage, I'm going to show you a new product that we call Copilot Workspace that does exactly that.
So here's my workspace, and you can already see there's not an editor anymore.
I can just see a task, and I can enter a task.
I want to now expand the LegoBrick into a Lego house, stack the bricks in the shape of a Lego house.
And I can do that also in German and other languages, but for now, let's stick with English.
I can save my task, and now what happens is that Copilot Workspace analyzes what I already have and then describes what it proposes to me.
Basically, it reframes my ask into a plan or a specification.
And so you can see here, you know, it's all in natural language.
It uses some file names, of course, but there is no code here.
It's all describing it in English, and I can actually go into this and edit it and can make changes to this line or I can go down here and add another item if I feel like the plan is not exactly what I want.
I can go a step further and generate a plan, and now an agent runs through all my files I already have and figures out how do I need to modify those files or, you know, do I need to add files to my repository.
So, you know, it wants to add a createLegoHouse function and call the createLegoHouse afterwards.
And now Copilot uses my task, my specification, my plan to write code for me.
Now I see here this, and now it imports some new line into my file and has written, you know, lots of code here that does those changes.
So here's a button that lets me open a live preview, so I can do this, and now the bricks fall from the sky and I have a Lego house.
This is the power of streaming my creativity into reality with natural language.
Now, what you just saw were three leaps in three years, three leaps that are more progress to the accessibility of computer programming than we have made in the last 100.
Because going forward, every person, no matter what language they speak, will also have the power to speak machine.
Any human language is now the only skill that you need to start computer programming.
This will lead to a globalized groundswell of software developers, and it will reshape the geography of our global economy.
And because of this, I think by 2030, maybe even sooner, we will have more than 1 billion software developers on GitHub.
This will generate a new renaissance of human creativity with software.
Now, anyone here in this room could have a brilliant idea right now, a website, an application, a cool computer game, an amazing song, maybe even a cure for something.
For example, last year, over a couple of weeks, I built an app that tracks all the flights I've ever taken in my life.
And yeah, it's true, I love building stuff like this.
And with the help of AI, now I can do this in English or in German before I even finish a glass of wine.
And soon enough, this will be true for everyone here.
Now, this doesn't mean that everyone will become a professional software developer, or even that they should.
The profession of a professional software developer is not going anywhere.
There will always be demand for those that design and maintain the largest software systems in the world.
We're adding millions of lines of code every single day to ever more complex systems, and we're barely keeping up with maintaining the existing ones.
Like any infrastructure in this world out there, we need real experts to preserve and renew it.
The point here is not a will or a should.
It's that anyone can, all because the most powerful system that we have, any human language, is now fused to the language of a machine.
And very soon, building software will be just as simple and joyful as stacking a Lego.
Gosh, I got to say, one billion developers makes GitHub sound more like YouTube and TikTok than it is today.
Got to ask you one question, perhaps the elephant in the room.
You also said we've had three leaps in three years.
Fast forwarding a little bit, do you think humans will still need to be in the loop, or will these AI systems be able to autonomously build and maintain software?
You know, the way I always think about that and talk about it is that we called it Copilot for a reason.
We need a pilot that is creative, that can decide what to do.
You need to take this big problem and break it down into smaller problems, into small building blocks.
Today, it's a couple of lines of code, maybe a whole file.
So I get more work taking off my shoulders, but I'm still there covering the large system.
And as I mentioned, we're still running COBOL systems from the 60s.
So we will be in charge orchestrating these systems at a higher level of abstraction.
There was not a single eye to be found in these ancient waters.
There was a time that the very idea of seeing didn't exist.
So for reasons we're only beginning to understand, trilobites, the first organisms that could sense light, emerged.
They're the first inhabitants of this reality that we take for granted.
First to discover that there's something other than oneself, a world of many selves.
The ability to see is thought to have ushered in Cambrian explosion, a period in which a huge variety of animal species entered fossil records.
What began as a passive experience, the simple act of letting light in, soon became far more active.
Understanding led to actions, and all these give rise to intelligence.
Today, we're no longer satisfied with just nature's gift of visual intelligence.
Curiosity urges us to create machines to see just as intelligently as we can, if not better.
Nine years ago, on this stage, I delivered an early progress report on computer vision, a subfield of artificial intelligence.
A family of algorithms called neural network, fast, specialized hardware called graphic processing units, or GPUs, and big data, like the 15 million images that my lab spent years curating, called ImageNet.
Back then, just putting labels on images were a big breakthrough.
But the speed and accuracy of these algorithms just improved rapidly.
The annual ImageNet challenge led by my lab gauged the performance of this progress, and on this plot, you're seeing the annual improvement and milestone models.
We went a step further and created algorithms that can segment objects or predict the dynamic relationships among them in these works done by my students and collaborators.
Recall last time I showed you the first computer vision algorithm that can describe a photo in human natural language.
That was work done with my brilliant former student, Andrej Kapathy.
At that time, I pushed my luck and said, Andrej, can we make computers to do the reverse?
Well, as you can see from this post recently, the impossible has become possible.
Many of you have seen the recent impressive results of Sora by OpenAI.
But even without the enormous number of GPUs, my students and our collaborators have developed a generative video model called WALT months before Sora.
I mean, look at that cat's eye and the way it goes under the wave without ever getting wet.
And if it passes the prologue, we will learn from these mistakes and create a future we imagine.
And in this future, we want AI to do everything it can for us or to help us.
For years, I have been saying that taking a picture is not the same as seeing and understanding.
When we act upon this world in 3D space and time, we learn and learn to see and do better.
Nature has created this virtuous cycle of seeing and doing, powered by spatial intelligence.
To illustrate to you what your spatial intelligence is doing constantly, look at this picture.
Raise your hand if you feel like you want to do something.
In the last split of a second, your brain looked at the geometry of this glass, its place in 3D space, its relationship with the table, the cat and everything else, and you can predict what's going to happen next.
The urge to act is innate to all beings with spatial intelligence, which links perception with action.
And if we want to advance AI beyond its current capabilities, we want more than AI that can see and talk.
The recent milestones in spatial intelligence is teaching computers to see, learn, do and learn to see and do better.
It took nature millions of years to evolve spatial intelligence, which depends on the eye taking light, project 2D images on the retina and the brain to translate these data into 3D information.
Only recently, a group of researchers from Google are able to develop an algorithm to take a bunch of photos and translate that into 3D space, like the examples we're showing here.
My student and our collaborators have taken a step further and created an algorithm that takes one input image and turns that into 3D shape.
Recall we talked about computer programs that can take a human sentence and turn it into videos.
A group of researchers in the University of Michigan have figured out a way to translate that line of sentence into a 3D room layout, like shown here.
And my colleagues at Stanford and their students have developed an algorithm that takes one image and generates infinitely plausible spaces for viewers to explore.
These are prototypes of the first budding science of a future possibility, one in which the human race can take our entire world and translate into digital forms and model the richness and nuances.
What nature did to us implicitly in our individual minds, spatial intelligence technology can hope to do for our collective consciousness.
As the progress of spatial intelligence accelerates, a new era in this virtual cycle is taking place in front of our eyes.
This back and forth is catalyzing robotic learning, a key component for any embodied intelligence system that needs to understand and interact with the 3D world.
Today, we're doing the same with behaviors and actions to train computers and robots how to act in the 3D world.
But instead of collecting static images, we develop simulation environments powered by 3D spatial models so that the computers can have infinite varieties of possibilities to learn to act.
And you're just seeing a small number of examples to teach our robots in a project led by my lab called Behavior.
Typically, I would like a little more for my sandwich, but this is a good start.
In that primordial ocean in our ancient times, the ability to see and perceive one's environment kicked off the Cambrian explosion of interactions with other life forms.
Spatial intelligence are allowing machines to interact not only with one another, but with humans and with 3D worlds, real or virtual.
And as that future is taking shape, it'll have a profound impact to many lives.
For the past decade, my lab has been taking some of the first steps in applying AI to tackle challenges that impact patient outcome and medical staff burnout.
Together with our collaborators from Stanford School of Medicine and partnering hospitals, we're piloting smart sensors that can detect clinicians going into patient rooms without properly washing their hands, or keep track of surgical instruments, or alert care teams when a patient is at physical risk, such as falling.
We consider these techniques a form of ambient intelligence, like extra pairs of eyes that do make a difference.
But I would like more interactive help for our patients, clinicians and caretakers who desperately also need an extra pair of hands.
Imagine autonomous robots transporting medical supplies while caretakers focus on our patients, or augmented reality guiding surgeons to do safer, faster and less invasive operations.
Or imagine patients with severe paralysis controlling robots with their thoughts, that's right, brainwaves, to perform everyday tasks that you and I take for granted.
You're seeing a glimpse of that future in this pilot study from my lab recently.
This study, which was published a few years ago, turned a world of darkness upside down.
It set off the most profound evolutionary process, the development of intelligence in animal world.
AI's breathtaking progress in the last decade is just as astounding.
But I believe the full potential of this digital Cambrian explosion won't be fully realized until we power our computers and robots with spatial intelligence, just like what nature did to all of us.
It's an exciting time to teach our digital companion to learn to reason and to interact with this beautiful 3D space we call home, and also create many more new worlds that we can all explore.
It requires all of us to take thoughtful steps and develop technologies that always put humans in the center.
But if we do this right, the computers and robots powered by spatial intelligence will not only be useful tools, but also trusted partners to enhance and augment our productivity and humanity while respecting our individual dignity and lifting our collective prosperity.
What excites me the most in the future is a future in which that AI grows more perceptive, insightful and spatially aware, and they join us on our quest to always pursue a better way to make a better world.
